a web of smells wafts through the night
air each carries a precise chemical
message
an hour after sundown the provision
flower broadcasts an aromatic
advertisement to pollinators
but it's drifting fragrance also
attracts profit tears kinkajous are
sometimes known as honey bears they
cannot resist the sweet nectar pooled at
the base of the petals
the only way it can get to the nectar is
to ruin the flower it's of no help at
all to the provision tree the flowers
real allies come by air long tongued
bats are drawn to the nectar by its
sweet scent as they drink a dusting of
pollen sticks to special hair scales and
then fertilizes other provision flower
the bats visit
provision flowers wilt as the dark hours
wane
the kinkajou mother is strictly
nocturnal natural signals that herald
daybreak urge you return to her treetop
nest hole this Haven is vital protection
from dangerous daylight hunters such as
Eagles
it is also a safe place to nurture her
baby who depends on her daytime presence
to stock up energy-rich nectar from the
provision flower reaches the infant
through her milk
the baby will remain in close contact
with its mother for at least six months
developing acute senses and grasping
claws which will prepare it for future
leaps in the dark for now there's plenty
of time to sleep off a full tummy